[OSDOCS-8741] Machine phases and lifecycle (#68160)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/machine-determine-phase-gui.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * machine_management/machine-phases-lifecycle.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="machine-determine-phase-gui_{context}"]
= Determining the phase of a machine by using the web console

You can find the phase of a machine by using the {product-title} web console.

.Prerequisites

> * You have access to an {product-title} cluster using an account with `cluster-admin` permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You have access to an {product-title} cluster by using an account with `cluster-admin` permissions.
```

.Procedure

. Log in to the web console as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.

. Navigate to *Compute* -> *Machines*.

> . On the *Machines* page, select the name of the machine that you want to find the phase of.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. On the *Machines* page, select the name of the machine whose phase you want to search for.
```

. On the *Machine details* page, select the *YAML* tab.

. In the YAML block, find the value of the `status.phase` field.
+
.Example YAML snippet
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: machine.openshift.io/v1beta1
kind: Machine
metadata:
  name: mycluster-5kbsp-worker-us-west-1a-fmx8t
# ...
status:

>   phase: Running <1>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  phase: Running # <1>
```

Reviewer: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#using-asciidoc-callouts-in-the-yaml

Author: thank you! I forget this like 95% of the time :facepalm:
